research/experiments.md, before:

# Experiments

Objective is to check assumptions on AI model details and development nuances at lowe cost and risk.

## Necessary model inputs
**Objective**: Define proper context input(content, format) for optimal model performance.

**Methodology**:
1. Define and upload examples
2. Run a prompt that refers to the content of the file
3. Capture the result
4. Define new experiment or add more examples

### JSON git history with diffs
#### Overview
The model will be trained on the git history of the codebase. The git history will be represented as a JSON object.
Assumption is that model should use the content of the file to provide prompt with accurate context.

**Example format:**
```json
{
  "commits": [
    {
      "author": "John Doe",
      "date": "2021-01-01T00:00:00Z",
      "message": "Initial commit",
      "diff": "diff --git a/file1 b/file1\nindex 0000000..1111111 100644\n--- a/file1\n+++ b/file1\n@@ -1,2 +1,2 @@\n-line1\n+line2\n line2\n line3\n"
    },
    {
      "author": "Jane Doe",
      "date": "2021-01-02T00:00:00Z",
      "message": "Add file2",
      "diff": "diff --git a/file2 b/file2\nnew file mode 100644\nindex 0000000..1111111\n--- /dev/null\n+++ b/file2\n@@ -0,0 +1,2 @@\n+line1\n+line2\n"
    }
  ]
}
```

#### Results

**Experiment 1:**
- **Input**: [simple git history with diffs](./examples/duplicates_simple/context.json)
- **Prompt**: "Analyze recent commit and output if there is a duplication happens, explain it and advice how and who needs to address it."
- **Result**: [conversation](./conversations/duplicates_simple_with_instruction_and_prompt.md)
- **Summary**: The model was able to identify the duplication in the codebase and provide an explanation and recommendations for addressing it.
- **Next Steps**: Tune prompt to avoid redundancy in the output while keeping accuracy.
Try to use more complex examples where many things are happening in the codebase.

**Experiment 2:**
- **Input**: [complex git history with diffs](./examples/duplicates_extended/context.json)
- **Prompt**: "Analyze recent commit and output if there is a duplication happens, explain it and advice how and who needs to address it."
- **Result**: [conversation](./conversations/duplicates_extended_with_instruction_and_prompt.md)
- **Summary**: The model was able to identify the duplication, who is involved and how approach addressing it.
- **Next Steps**: Consider output and tag involved developers so that they can be notified about the issue.

## Prompts and instructions
**Objective**: Define the pattern of prompts that will be used to extract the necessary information from the codebase.

## Cost estimates
**Objective**: Estimate the cost of running the model in terms of time and resources.

## Architecture
**Objective**: Find out the optimal way to:
- Provision the model
- Supply the model with context(schedule)
- Trigger runs
- Collect feedback(finetune)
- Implement multi tenancy(every user has its own model instance or share the same model instance)
- User defined configuration(manifest or config file vs inputs)
- Use vector store
- Use function to output results

Commit message:

add more context gathering tasks

research/experiments.md, after:

# Experiments

Objective is to check assumptions on AI model details and development nuances at lowe cost and risk.

## Necessary model inputs
**Objective**: Define proper context input(content, format) for optimal model performance.

**Methodology**:
1. Define and upload examples
2. Run a prompt that refers to the content of the file
3. Capture the result
4. Define new experiment or add more examples

### Define optimal size of the context
#### Overview
Taking into account the model's capabilities and the complexity of the codebase, it is important to determine the optimal size of the context that will be used to train the model.
Determine:
- The number of commits to include in the context
- Edge conditions

### JSON git history with diffs
#### Overview
The model will be trained on the git history of the codebase. The git history will be represented as a JSON object.
Assumption is that model should use the content of the file to provide prompt with accurate context.

**Example format:**
```json
{
  "commits": [
    {
      "author": "John Doe",
      "date": "2021-01-01T00:00:00Z",
      "message": "Initial commit",
      "diff": "diff --git a/file1 b/file1\nindex 0000000..1111111 100644\n--- a/file1\n+++ b/file1\n@@ -1,2 +1,2 @@\n-line1\n+line2\n line2\n line3\n"
    },
    {
      "author": "Jane Doe",
      "date": "2021-01-02T00:00:00Z",
      "message": "Add file2",
      "diff": "diff --git a/file2 b/file2\nnew file mode 100644\nindex 0000000..1111111\n--- /dev/null\n+++ b/file2\n@@ -0,0 +1,2 @@\n+line1\n+line2\n"
    }
  ]
}
```

#### Results

**Experiment 1:**
- **Input**: [simple git history with diffs](./examples/duplicates_simple/context.json)
- **Prompt**: "Analyze recent commit and output if there is a duplication happens, explain it and advice how and who needs to address it."
- **Result**: [conversation](./conversations/duplicates_simple_with_instruction_and_prompt.md)
- **Summary**: The model was able to identify the duplication in the codebase and provide an explanation and recommendations for addressing it.
- **Next Steps**: Tune prompt to avoid redundancy in the output while keeping accuracy.
Try to use more complex examples where many things are happening in the codebase.

**Experiment 2:**
- **Input**: [complex git history with diffs](./examples/duplicates_extended/context.json)
- **Prompt**: "Analyze recent commit and output if there is a duplication happens, explain it and advice how and who needs to address it."
- **Result**: [conversation](./conversations/duplicates_extended_with_instruction_and_prompt.md)
- **Summary**: The model was able to identify the duplication, who is involved and how approach addressing it.
- **Next Steps**: Consider output and tag involved developers so that they can be notified about the issue.

## Prompts and instructions
**Objective**: Define the pattern of prompts that will be used to extract the necessary information from the codebase.

## Cost estimates
**Objective**: Estimate the cost of running the model in terms of time and resources.

## Architecture
**Objective**: Find out the optimal way to:
- Provision the model
- Supply the model with context(schedule)
- Trigger runs
- Collect feedback(finetune)
- Implement multi tenancy(every user has its own model instance or share the same model instance)
- User defined configuration(manifest or config file vs inputs)
- Use vector store
- Use function to output results
